---
layout: post
title:  "2024 in Retrospect"
background: "/assets/imgs/braindump2.png"
---

It's the end of 2024! :mixed-emotions-emoji:

Things have happened and now, all of a sudden, I find myself at the end of the year.
Last year, I wrote [a blog post](https://niehusstaab.com/the-dump/2024/01/08/New-Year-Habits.html) detailing habits that I wanted to maintain, expand, or reign in.
I also suggested that I might check my progress, but predictably, I haven't done that until now.

As we've heard many times before, it's very easy to not make any progress if you never
check how things are going every now and then, so I'm going to employ one of the extremely
secret tools of my highly big-brain profession: the Retrospective. This ancient implement was
invented to help course-correct as we undergo dangerous quests of uncertain destination.
With this tool in hand, we'll see how I can improve my New Years' "resolutions" to more
effectively lead myself down the path toward the future me I want to create.

## The Retrospective

According to [benlinders.com](https://www.benlinders.com/2013/which-questions-do-you-ask-in-retrospectives/), 4 key questions to ask
as part of a retrospective are:

1. What did I do well?
2. What did I learn?
3. What should I do differently?
4. What still puzzles me?

I'm going to answer these questions (in relation to my 7 goals from last year), and in the process, hopefully
find some takeaways for how I can improve on them in the coming year, and do better on future goals.

### What did I do well?

I feel much more satisfied with the amount of time I spent with friends and family this year (2024 Goal 1).
With everyone closer at hand, I get to see my loved ones a lot more frequently. Next up is actually taking
on my stretch-goal of last year to organize more events myself, rather than just waiting for other people
to do all the work of making something happen.

I successfully cut back on YouTube (2024 Goal 2) with the help of a side project I created called [TubeBouncer](https://github.com/niehusst/TubeBouncer) 
(TODO blog post still pending). It limits me to 1 hour of being on YouTube domains per day. The code is nauseating, but it's kind of fun
to be in complete control of a tool I actually use and rely on almost every day.

I did also keep exercising (2024 Goal 6) for most of the year. I put a lot of effort into trying to run
Ultimate Frisbee practices over the Summer and Fall. While I'm not happy about the attendance of those practices,
I am proud of how consistent and dedicated I was to running them. I was also able to improve my upwind forehand hucks
while practicing alone in a field most weeks of the Summer.

### What did I learn?

I definitely forgot about most of my goals over the course of the year. I managed to make progress on some,
simply because they continued to bother me (like wanting to watch less YouTube), but others that involved
a positive change in behavior (i.e. adding something, rather than taking something away) got lost in the shuffle.

To stop myself from doing something I'd rather not (i.e. last year's Watch less YouTube goal), I generally just
need to make it a little bit harder to do, not necessarily impossible. TubeBouncer isn't currently active in
incognito tabs (although it would be trivial to give it access), but I've found that that tiny extra hurdle of
entering incognito mode is enough to prevent me from wandering onto YouTube because I'm bored. Plus, it's a
convenient escape-hatch on the occasion I need to watch a YouTube video for educational reasons, even if I've
used up my allotted hour for the day.

That said, it can be easy for me to fall out of the frying pan and into the fire. While I successfully watched less
YouTube, my anime viewing time on Crunchyroll shot way up. I feel better about watching anime than
random junk on YouTube, but there's still a lot of other things I want to do outside of content consumption.

Goals involving other people require their buy-in as well (who'd have thought?). I had some mixed results
with trying to spend time with my partner more intentionally (2024 Goal 3) since they were not always
able to put more energy into being social with me. But we did share our calendars so that we can better
find intersecting free time in our schedules for dates.

I tend to be more of a follower when I comes to planning/organizing events (undoubtedly because it is easier).
This made it harder for me to progress in goals like seeing family and friends more often, and creating family
traditions (2024 Goal 7). I need to repeatedly remind myself to be more proactive to make these things happen, rather
than assuming I'll eventually wake up feeling inspired to organize an event.

### What should I do differently?

I fell off my exercise routine a little in the Fall due to a busy vacation and work schedule. I was intending
to only take a break for a short while, but with one family activity bleeding into the next vacation into the next big work
deadline, I ended up missing about a month of exercise. I realize I need to keep exercising even while I'm away from home. 
Difficulty sleeping has also complicated maintaining my exercise schedule, since it's a lot harder to motivate myself to do anything in the morning
if I'm still dead-tired (I typically exercise in the morning).

Merely saying "I'd like to do X more often" in my goals didn't actually achieve anything, since I failed to look back
at the blog post for the entire year. I need to setup some kind of reminder for these things to stick with me.
I also didn't end up "making time" for side projects (2024 Goal 4) very often since other, lower effort, activities (like watching ANOTHER entire anime
over the course of 3 days) were often easier to start. I need to find a way to level the field of effort
required to start an activity so I don't end up reaching for the mindless ones so quickly.

### What still puzzles me?

I'm still having a hecking hard time sleeping (2024 Goal 5). I briefly looked into getting a sleep study done,
but those seem to be unexpectedly expensive and require more specialized care than I had envisioned,
so it hasn't happened yet. This is really getting in the way of my other habits (especially exercise),
which throws off my whole day and makes it difficult to get anything done at work too. I am very frustrated
with how difficult sleeping and breathing have become. I really don't want to resort to using drugs, since even just
children's melatonin gummies tend to make me sleep worse, even if they help me get to sleep faster. But I may
have to if I can't find some way of regularly getting more sleep soon.

## Takeaways

Retrospectives don't have much point if you don't record some actions you want to take
as a result of the reflection/introspection. So here's my short bullet list:

* Sleep is critical, even if I hate the concept of it. I must further investigate how I can sleep well, since it affects my other goals.
* Put a reminder in my calendar to check my goals every quarter to make sure I don't forget them again. Individual goals may also require repeating calendar reminders in order to maintain focus.
* Make it easier to start (or even just choose?) an activity that works toward my goals, rather than just picking up the easiest one at hand (YouTube/anime). Or maybe make it harder to start those easy, mindless activities?
* Add Crunchyroll to my TubeBouncer time limiter.
* Be cautious of replacing one bad habit with another; try to strike at the root rather than the symptom.
* A busy schedule is no excuse for slacking on self-care.

Remember, just because something is difficult is no excuse not to try. See y'all in the new year!
